Astro API overview, getting started, policies (#2825)
astronomer/docs: astro/api/get-started.md

    {
      "billingEmail": "billing@company.com",
      "createdAt": "2022-11-22T04:37:12T",
      "createdBySubject": {
        "apiTokenName": "my-token",
        "avatarUrl": "https://avatar.url",
        "fullName": "Jane Doe",
        "id": "clm8qv74h000008mlf08scq7k",
        "subjectType": "USER",
        "username": "user1@company.com"
      },
      "id": "clmaxoarx000008l2c5ayb9pt",
      "isScimEnabled": false,
...
      ],
```

Copy the top-level `id` from this response. This is your Organization ID.

While you could have retrieved this value manually from the Cloud UI, using the API lets you script this workflow and execute it on a regular basis.

## Step 2: Request Workspace details from the API

Using the Organization ID you copied, you can now find the ID for the Workspace where you want to create your API token. 

Run the following command to list all Workspaces in your Organization:

```bash
curl https://api.astronomer.io/platform/v1beta1/organizations/{organizationId}/workspaces \
--H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \
```

If the command succeeds, the API returns a list of Workspaces similar to the following:

```json{18}
{
  "limit": 0,

>   "offset": 0,

Reviewer: maybe should include some sensible value for `limit`, `offset`, and `totalCount`

Author: Wouldn't this be what it returns if you don't specify any pagination? Or do these values only appear when you make a request?

---
title: Get started with the Astro API
sidebar_label: Get started
id: get-started
---

In this quickstart tutorial, you'll make some simple requests to retrieve and modify values for a Workspace API token.

## Prerequisites

- An [Astro account](log-in-to-astro.md). 
- A Organization API token with the Organization Owner role. Astronomer recommends creating a new API token for this tutorial. 
- A method for making API requests. This tutorial assumes you're using curl, but you can also use tools such as Postman.

## Step 1: Make your first API request

To access most endpoints, you need to provide an Organization ID to the API as a path parameter. One of the few requests that doesn't require an Organization ID is the "List Organizations" request, meaning you can programmatically retrieve an Organization ID for other API request types. 

To retrieve the Organization ID through the API, run the following command:

```bash

> curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1alpha1/organizations \

Author: These API requests are out of date. They'll be updated once we finalize the v1beta1 schema.

--H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \
```

> If the command was successful, you'll receive a response that begins similarly to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the command was successful, then you receive a response that begins similarly to the following:
```
Conditional / future tense is a little tricky vs if/then constructions are a little clearer for some readers.

```json {28}
[
  {
    "authServiceId": "string",
    "billingEmail": "string",
    "createdAt": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
    "createdBy": "string",
    "createdBySubject": {
      "apiTokenName": "string",
      "avatarUrl": "string",
      "fullName": "string",
      "id": "string",
      "subjectType": "USER",
      "username": "string"
    },
    "domains": [
      "string"
    ],
    "entitlements": {
      "property1": {
        "enabled": true,
        "requiredTier": "TRIAL"
      },
      "property2": {
        "enabled": true,
        "requiredTier": "TRIAL"
      }
    },
    "id": "string",
    ...
  }
]
```

> Copy the value for `id` from this response. While you could have retrieved this value manually from the Cloud UI, using the API lets you script this workflow and execute it on a regular basis.

Reviewer 2: 🎉 I like the automation mentions

> Copy the value for `id` from this response. While you could have retrieved this value manually from the Cloud UI, using the API lets you script this workflow and execute it on a regular basis.

Author: ```suggestion
Copy the value for `id` from this response. This is your Organization ID.

While you could have retrieved this value manually from the Cloud UI, using the API lets you script this workflow and execute it on a regular basis.
```

## Step 2: Request more information from the API

Using the Organization ID you copied, send the following request.

```bash
curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces \
--H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \
```

> If the command was successful, you'll receive a response similar to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the command succeeds, then you receive a response similar to the following:
```

Reviewer 2: What happens if it fails? do we have any troubleshooting?

Author: We can add some troubleshooting after some of the beta users get their hands on it, I don't think there's been any troubleshooting points brought up by engineering yet

1. Run the following command to retrieve metadata for your Workspace API token:

    ```bash
    curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces/<your-workspace-id>/api-tokens \
    --H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \
    ```

2. Copy the `id` of your token from the API's response.
3. Run the following command to update the description of your Workspace API token:

    ```bash
    curl -X POST https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1alpha1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces/<your-workspace-id>/api-tokens/<your-token-id> \
    --H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \
    -D Copy { "description": "I updated this description using the Astro API!", "name": "<your-api-token-name>", "role": "WORKSPACE_OWNER" }
    ```

    If the request was successful, the API will return a response with all of your token's details, including the updated description.

4. In the Cloud UI, go to **Workspace Settings** > **Access Management** > **API Tokens** and find your Workspace API token. You should see your updated description under **Description**.

## Next steps

Get familiar with the Astro API using the API reference guides:

> - Platform API reference [LINK TBD]
> - IAM API reference [LINK TBD]

Author: ```suggestion
- [Platform API reference](api/platform-api-reference.mdx)
- [IAM API reference](api/iam-api-reference.mdx)
```

---
title: Get started with the Astro API
sidebar_label: Get started
id: get-started
---

In this quickstart tutorial, you'll make some simple requests to retrieve and modify values for a Workspace API token.

## Prerequisites

- An [Astro account](log-in-to-astro.md). 
- A Organization API token with the Organization Owner role. Astronomer recommends creating a new API token for this tutorial. 
- A method for making API requests. This tutorial assumes you're using curl, but you can also use tools such as Postman.

## Step 1: Make your first API request

To access most endpoints, you need to provide an Organization ID to the API as a path parameter. One of the few requests that doesn't require an Organization ID is the [List Organizations](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/api/platform-api-reference#tag/Organization/operation/ListOrganizations) request, which means you can programmatically retrieve an Organization ID for other API request types. 

To retrieve the Organization ID through the API, run the following command:

```bash

> curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1alpha1/organizations \

Author: ```suggestion
curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/platform/v1beta1/organizations \
```

--H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \
```

If the command was successful, then you receive a response that begins similarly to the following:

```json {28}
[
  {
    "authServiceId": "string",
    "billingEmail": "string",
    "createdAt": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
    "createdBy": "string",
    "createdBySubject": {
      "apiTokenName": "string",
      "avatarUrl": "string",
      "fullName": "string",
      "id": "string",
      "subjectType": "USER",
      "username": "string"
    },
    "domains": [
      "string"
    ],
    "entitlements": {
      "property1": {
        "enabled": true,
        "requiredTier": "TRIAL"
      },
      "property2": {
        "enabled": true,
        "requiredTier": "TRIAL"
      }
    },
    "id": "string",
    ...
  }
]
```

Copy the value for `id` from this response. This is your Organization ID.

While you could have retrieved this value manually from the Cloud UI, using the API lets you script this workflow and execute it on a regular basis.

## Step 2: Request more information from the API

Using the Organization ID you copied, send the following request.

```bash

> curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces \

Author: ```suggestion
curl https://api.astronomer.io/platform/v1beta1/organizations/{organizationId}/workspaces \
```

      "organizationId": "string",
      "organizationName": "string",
      "organizationShortName": "string",
      "serverlessRuntimeCount": 0,
      "updatedAt": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
      "updatedBy": {
        "apiTokenName": "string",
        "avatarUrl": "string",
        "fullName": "string",
        "id": "string",
        "subjectType": "USER",
        "username": "string"
      },
      "userCount": 0
    }
  ]
}
```

Copy the `workspace.id` for the next step. 

:::tip

If the API returned many Workspaces, try sending the following request instead to limit your search: 

```bash
curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces?search="<your-workspace-name>" \
--H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \
```

Query parameters like `search` are useful for limiting the results that the API returns for `GET` requests.

:::

## Step 3: Update your token description using the API

Now that you have both an Organization ID and a Workspace ID, you can update your API token description and check your changes in the Cloud UI. 

1. Run the following command to retrieve metadata for your Workspace API token:

    ```bash

>     curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces/<your-workspace-id>/api-tokens \

Author: ```suggestion
    curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces/<your-workspace-id>/api-tokens \
```
```suggestion
    curl https://api.astronomer-dev.io/iam/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/tokens \
```

>     --H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' \

Author: ```suggestion
    --H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-api-token>' 
```

    ```

2. Copy the `id` of your token from the API's response.
3. Run the following command to update the description of your Workspace API token:

    ```bash

>     curl -X POST https://api.astronomer-dev.io/v1alpha1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/workspaces/<your-workspace-id>/api-tokens/<your-token-id> \

Author: ```suggestion
    curl -X POST https://api.astronomer-dev.io/iam/v1beta1/organizations/<your-organization-id>/tokens/<your-token-id> \
```
